luis from trade options with me doubt
come here today I want to represent you
the differences between undefined and
defined rest strategies and I will just
do the entire video inside of this
broker platform tasty works so here you
get the best impression of the actual
differences and I will just be comparing
an undefined
to a defined risk strategy to make what
the difference is clear and y'all are
probably just do a naked call option
versus the vertical spread or something
like that and I just do it on SP Y but
it doesn't really matter just a good
liquid acid let's just pick the May
expiration cycle and um yeah let's go
with the 280 or now let's go with a 275
cool just held that and yet the most
obvious difference between undefined and
defined risk option strategies is the
risk obviously I'm risk for undefined
risk strategies is undefined or
unlimited that you can see down here and
for defined risk strategies its defined
or limited can only lose a certain
amount of money and it doesn't matter
what happens to the underlying asset you
can't lose more than that money so
that's a definite Pro for many people
but it's it's kind of misleading because
you can't theoretically you can lose an
unlimited amount of money on naked
options but I mean that never happens
the underlying assets price never moves
up to infinity or it rarely moves down
to zero so if you sell a put option
you're the only risk is actually limited
as the stock or the underlying asset can
only go down to $0 and not can't drop
more than that but even that
practically never happens for these
major major assets so yeah that's the
first difference but besides the
difference in risk you that is actually
quite substantial the difference in the
max profit as well or the credit to take
in
obviously when you only sell an option
and don't have to buy anything you take
in more credits or taking more money and
therefore your max profit is much much
larger as you can see here if you just
sell the 275 call you'll take in almost
$2 and if you buy that said the 280 call
option you would only taking 120 and
that's going quite far so let's just say
you have a tighter spread at the 277
you're only taking $60 or 60 cent so
that's quite a big difference so
together with the capped loss there
comes capped profit or profit is capped
anyways but it's much smaller your max
profit and obviously the further you got
the cheaper the long option will get and
the more credit you'll take in but the
max loss increases as well if you go out
as you can see down here and I'm
eternally if you go further in the money
or at the money or your max profit will
increase together with more credit your
break-even point also are quite
different for defined and undefined with
strategies so let's just say yeah let's
just stick with this one the 275 call
option and as you can see here second
your break-even point is right around
277 even though we saw the 275 collage
and that's because they took in almost
$2 of credit and that for your
break-even point gets moved out to to
almost to send his home and let's say we
will add the 278 call option as
protection to make the spread defined
and then the break-even point only is at
276 so that's actually quite a big
difference and yeah this the breaking
point has a direct impact on the
probability of profit as the stock has
underlying asset has less less room to
move in before this spread becomes
becomes lost so let's just can just look
at the probability of profit down here
and if I remove this long option
actually increased by 3% and that's
actually quite a big difference and if
we will never even tide true vertical
spread this would sink even more and if
we go further to add the money it will
go down even more
the different aspect that you should
consider when comparing these strategies
is affected buying power and some
limitations in certain accounts your
buying power for defined risk strategies
will only be reduced by the defined risk
so this spread would be would reduce
your buying power by two at fifteen
dollars a normal cash account and yeah
so that's pretty straightforward but for
naked options it will be reduced by much
more so you definitely need larger
account but yeah setting naked options
isn't allowed in all account types
anyways
most IRA accounts for example don't
allow you to sell naked options so yeah
that's definitely an aspect to consider
and get together with the buying power
reduction you could consider your return
on capital as that's substantially
higher for defined risk strategies but
further the difference between the final
undefined rest strategies is the aspect
of rolling rolling options
active to later expiration cycles can be
much easier for unfund
risk strategies because you can mostly
take any credit you can't always take
any credit for defined risk strategies
because you have to pay to open another
long option and that often leads to a
novel debit if you would want to roll
and mostly won't what roll for debit so
that's a definite disadvantage as you
have much less management opportunities
with under with defined risk strategies
another difference are the option Greeks
and how they are affected just you can
see that and taste a down here for the
set up position as you can see if we
just sell this to 75 cold Delta will be
around minus 31 and theta will be around
5 so you would take in around 5 dollars
per day if everything else stays the
same for their fourth time decay acetate
has 5 and it stands for time decay and
that means that your your directional
risk is to the upside so you want the
the underlying assets price to go down
and you would take you will earn around
$31 for a $1 move down so your quite or
relatively short here there's a
relatively short bearish position and
I'm hopeful judge movie would add a long
option here these values would decrease
or Delta will actually increase and
theta will decrease first of all theater
instead of being 5 he would only take
him around a little over $1 per day in
time decay if everything says the same
so that's that's a lot less and I'm
Delta is only minus 11 so you would be a
lot less shorter would profit much less
from the move down in the underlying
asset and yeah the same goes for most of
the other Greeks so yeah those were most
of the differences so I'm that sum
things up real quick before finish I'm
just yeah conclusion if the pros of
defined risk strategies are the limited
risk the better return on capital the
availability and all account types and
some cons of defined risk strategies are
that you're taking less premium
therefore you max profit is lower and
that leads to a break-even point being
different and therefore you have a lower
probability of profit and the Greeks are
more neutral than the Greeks of
undefined risk strategies and you have
fewer management options
thus the pros of undefined risk
strategies are that you take in more
premium you have a greater max profit
therefore your break-even point are
further out you have higher probability
of profit the Greeks are less neutral
more and more significant for undefined
risk strategies and you have more
management options and the cons of
undefined risk strategies are they
differ an unlimited risk you have a
worse return on capital as you need
quite some capital to put on those
trades and our account table
restrictions I really hope you learned
something new in this video and thanks
for watching